## Ubuntu 18.04 setup

I am learning server side swift recently, which means I need a linux server. So, I choose ubuntu, because it is the Swift.org officially supported distribution.

When finished install ubuntu 18.04, there are several things need to be done:
- Create a new user with sudo privileges.
- Set up ssh connection
- Disable password login
- Disable root user
- Set up firewall

#### Create a new user with sudo privileges
First login as the root user
```
ssh root@your_server_ip
```
Add a new user
```
adduser new_user_name
```
Add the new user to the `sudo` group
```
usermod -aG sudo new_user_name
```

#### Set up ssh connection
In your local computer, generate an SSH key pair
```
ssh-keygen
```
This generates a private key `id_rsa`, and a public key `id_rsa.pub`, in the `.ssh` directory of the local user's home directory

Next, copy the public key to remote server.
```
ssh-copy-id new_user_name@your_server_ip
```
After that, under your remote server new_user_name's home directory, should has a `.ssh` directory, which contains `authorized_keys` file.

If you need another computer to ssh login as new_user_name, you should another public key to this file.

#### Disable password login
As root or new_user_name login on remote server, open SSH daemon configuration
```
sudo nano /etc/ssh/sshd_config
```
Find `PasswordAuthentication`, uncomment it and change its value to `no`. Then, reload SSH daemon.
```
sudo systemctl reload sshd
```

Now, try to login your remote server using ssh with new user
```
ssh new_user_name@your_server_ip
```

#### Disable root user
Open SSH daemon configuration
```
sudo nano /etc/ssh/sshd_config
```
Find `PermitRootLogin`, uncomment it and change its value to `no`. Then reload SSH daemon.
```
sudo systemctl reload sshd.
```

#### Set up firewall
Check applications registered in UFW.
```
sudo ufw app list
```
You will see the `OpenSSH` listed in the output. We should let firewall allows SSH connection.
```
sudo ufw allow OpenSSH
```
And enable `ufw`
```
sudo ufw enable
```
You can check the `ufw` status by
```
sudo ufw status
```
